# Custom Templates

One of the powerful features of the `datamodel-code-generator` is the ability to use custom templates with the `--custom-template-dir` option.
This option allows you to provide a directory containing Jinja2 templates for customizing the generated code. In this document, we'll explore how to use this option and provide an example to help you understand its usage.

## Usage
To use the `--custom-template-dir` option, you'll need to pass the directory path containing your custom templates as an argument. The command will look like this:


```sh
$ datamodel-codegen --input {your_input_file} --output {your_output_file} --custom-template-dir {your_custom_template_directory}
```
Replace {your_input_file}, {your_output_file}, and {your_custom_template_directory} with the appropriate paths.

## Example
Let's say you want to generate a custom Python data model from a JSON Schema file called person.json. You want the generated data model to include a custom comment at the top of the file. To achieve this, you can create a custom template using Jinja2.

First, create a directory called `custom_templates` in your project directory. Inside this folder, create another folder called pydantic. Now, inside the `pydantic` folder, create a new file called `BaseModel.jinja2` with the following content:

**custom_templates/pydantic/BaseModel.jinja2**
```jinja2
# This is a custom comment generated with custom_template!!

class {{ class_name }}({{ base_class }}):
{%- for field in fields %}
    {{ field.name }}: {{ field.type_hint }}
{%- endfor -%}
```

This custom template includes the custom comment at the top and replicates the default rendering behavior of the BaseModel.jinja2 template from the Datamodel Code Generator.

Now, you can use the --custom-template-dir option to generate the data model with your custom template:
```sh
$ datamodel-codegen --input person.json --output person.py --custom-template-dir custom_templates
```

The generated `person.py` file will now include your custom comment at the top:

**person.py**
```python
# generated by datamodel-codegen:
#   filename:  person.json
#   timestamp: 2023-04-09T05:36:24+00:00

from __future__ import annotations

from typing import Optional

from pydantic import BaseModel

# This is a custom comment generated with custom_template!!


class Model(BaseModel):
    name: Optional[str]
    age: Optional[int]

```

In this example, we kept it simple, but you can create more complex custom templates by copying [the default templates](https://github.com/koxudaxi/datamodel-code-generator/tree/main/datamodel_code_generator/model/template) Use [the default templates](https://github.com/koxudaxi/datamodel-code-generator/tree/main/datamodel_code_generator/model/template) as a reference for understanding the structure and available variables, and customize the code generation process according to your specific requirements.
